Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to combine our javascript event listeners mouse down mouse
move mouse enter and we're going to show you how you can draw on your canvas using your mouse.
So first of all let's set up a canvas supplement and we're going to apply some styling to that canvas
element.
And also let's create a window on load.
So we're going to do the same thing that we've done in previous lessons where we set off a function
because we want to make sure that the dorm has actually loaded before we try to interact with it.
And also let's set up some widths for the canvas as well
so set that up and sort of set up variable so canvas with and let's give it a nice wide width and also
to canvas height
so as to be fairly large as well.
And then we also need to have that function function.
I NIIT So whenever the page initializes them we're going to fire that off.
So we go so we get a nice big canvas to work with so we grabbed canvas already let's add in some event
listeners.
So odd event listener.
And we're going to add in several So we want to add most move.
So this is the one whenever the user is actually moving that this is going to initiate the draw
the mouse down.
So whenever the mouse is down then we want it to grab and we want to be able to set up a position so
that only the actual.
So we're going to set position and whenever the mouse.
So whenever the mouse is moving we're going to get the position.
And whenever the mouse enters the canvas then we're also going to set position.
So let's create those functions now we need to create draw.
So that's the first function and we need to also create s position.
So we're picking up the position of the mouse whenever it moves.
So now we're ready to set up position so let's do this first and we'll do a console directory and we'll
take that event object.
So that target and we'll grab that within there.
We could also pass it as an event as well.
So maybe that's a little bit simpler we'll just pass it as the.
And what we did earlier as well.
Let's set up some variables and create an object for our positioning so that we know where we're drawing.
So we're going to have for x zero and for y zero.
So that's going to be our default positions.
So whenever we're moving it we need to reset position of X to whatever the position of the mouse is
and we're going to use Page X..
So basically this is the coordinate relative to where the mouse is within the element that it's on top
of because we're adding that event listener to that element.
So I need to pick up where it's relevant to that position.
So there we go should we should always have a position of x and y and maybe for now let's just put that
into our output area.
So variable output and document get element by ID.
So it's GRABBE output so that we can write to it.
And every time it moves let's update output and update the enraged him l to be X equals and then add
the value of position X and then concatenate it with why and y equals position Y so let's try this.
Let's refresh it.
So refresh the page.
So now whenever we're moving around we're getting the position of X and Y and we see them when we get
to zero there.
So this is roughly around 0 there and then all the way down to 700 by 700.
So I've got a bit of an offset there but we do see that we've got roughly those positions of where we're
located on top of that element.
So the next thing that we need to do is we to actually draw our content onto canvas and now that we
know that where the position of x and y is the next step is fairly easy or we simply draw that position.
So it's going to draw and we're going to pick pick up that event object.
And one of the things that I want to do is I only want to draw it whenever we press down on the mouse.
So there's a really easy trick here that we listen for the buttons and if none of the buttons are equal
to one then we can simply return back this function and we know that from earlier when we return back
a function basically that voids the rest of the code that doesn't actually run through the rest of the
court.
So basically if the button isn't pressed down then it's not going to do anything else here within the
code.
So let me show you how that's going to work.
So let's add in this output update.
Let's go back and refreshed the page and we're going to see it's only when I'm clicking down that we're
actually updating those values when I'm not clicking down right now and not clicking on the mouse.
It's not updating then when I click on it it does update those values.
So that's exactly what we want to happen is that we want only action to be taken whenever we're clicking
down.
So the next step is to add our drawing
so let's add that in.
And we've already got CTX set up.
So first thing that we want to do is we want to begin a brand new path and then we want to do CTX and
noticed that are not clearing it out because I don't actually want to clear out the contents so we simply
want to move to a position in the position that we want to move to is position X and position Y.
So wherever that's located.
So basically wherever the mouse is currently setting then that's where we want to update those positions.
Next thing that we want to do is we want to set the position so we're going to call that function
and then let's do.
Now it's out in a line so saw that there was a number of options with line.
So now we can set where we're drawing our line to
in order to draw it.
We know we need CTX stroke because otherwise nothing happens.
We don't actually see it.
So we need to make sure that we're adding in that CTX stroke.
So see what happens so let's refresh it.
And now whenever we click down we're able to draw something.
Move the mouse around and so on.
So we see we've got the ability to draw within our page.
We can also set some different parameters to it.
So we saw earlier that we can update the color so we can go
stroke style and let's say that two blue.
So now when we refresh that well you can see that we've got a blue line.
We can also set the width.
So as long as we're doing it before the stroke all of this is going to take place so we can do a line
with.
And basically this is going to allow us to make a wider line.
So it's 210.
So be a nice big thick line there that we're able to draw with.
And you see it's still kind of choppy.
So there's a few other things that we can do.
We've got some A-line options so we can do a line cap.
So for line cap we've got an option to do around that cap.
So I said around the top of wherever we're drawing.
So that makes it quite a bit smoother as well.
So now I wanted to add in some more Javascript challenges into this exercise.
So what I want you to do now is to open up your editor use the code that we've been using so far and
create each team L5 color input and then whenever that gets updated that we want to update the value
of the stroke style.
So we're going to put this stroke value into a variable and let the user actually update it when they
click it.
So go ahead and add that in and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution is type and color.
And let's give it an ID so that Id can be
color or background color.
So basically we want whenever this changes so we need to listen for the change on that.
And whenever it changes then we want to actually update that color value.
So that means we need a variable in order to contain it.
So variable.
And B what is call it background color and will set the default to to be blue
and of course we're going to have a hexadecimal color come in from there.
So keep that in mind as well.
So no that's instead of blue.
Let's just update to background color.
So now we need to make it dynamic.
We can also update it to read just to make sure that everything is working properly.
So we do have read and we do have our color picker here now.
So we should be able to pick a color.
Hit OK and update that value.
So let's grab that into an object so stewe variable Biji see.
And because we've already got the background color set there.
So let's do a document get element by id and we're going to grab that element information so the background
color.
And now we can an event listener to background color and let's add the listeners so let's do event listener
and the listener that we're listening for is change.
And whenever that fires off then we're going to run this function so it can set up an anonymous function
here.
And basically what we're going to be updating is the value of the caller.
So let's do let's first of all let's log that console log event target and we want to grab the target
value.
So let's just make sure that we're able to grab that.
So go back and refresh the page and let's let's just make sure that we were able to grab that color
in the console.
So there we go.
So now whenever I do this I can grab that color there so that's perfect.
And that's exactly what we want to do.
So now it's just a matter of setting the value and so we can really use javascript effectively in order
to
update canvass information.
So if we want it orange it's as easy as that.
Change the colors.
You can pick whatever colors you want now and all of them are going to work and you're going to be able
to update your values so you can even add some more inputs here so you can do one for the line line
with sort of set the line with 10.
So you can make this dynamic as well.
So a number of different options that you can add in and you can make a really effective drawing application
really easily on Candace.
So go ahead and try all of this so that you can make some updates to that as well.
And then the next lesson I'll show you how to actually save it to an image and also how we can erase
content here on the canvas.
So if you've drawn something and you've made a mistake we'll show you how you can use an eraser and
actually erase some of this content.
So all that is coming up.